We're half an hour from the open in Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Averil Hong
in Singapore.
>> Good Monday morning. I'm David Ingles
here in Hong Kong. Let's get to your top
stories today. A riskoff mood as you can
see on our screens here. Starting off
the week, we had a weaker than expected
jobs reports, revisions included there,
boosting havens and also boosting bets
for a September Fed rate cut. Now, oil
prices are under pressure after OPEC and
its allies agree to further boost
supply, fully reversing cutbacks made
back in 2023.
And we take a deep dive into Hong Kong's
stable coin legislation as the financial
hub seeks to offer an alternative in a
sector dominated by the US dollar.
[Music]
Good morning once again. Thank you for
taking the time to join us. As you can
see, uh stocks are off are continuing to
come off, I should note, extending
really the losses, the steep losses we
had going into the US close on Friday.
All that being mentioned, as you can
see, US futures are indicating that the
losses will have a limit at some point
today and we're up a third of 1%. TX is
coming online 9/10en of 1% to the
downside across a couple of other
markets that are coming online this
hour, including of course uh greater uh
China 1.8% is a damage across the topics
index. That takes us into really the big
macro story which we're still feeling
this part of the world and the rally in
the bond markets. The tens are coming up
on your screens. an update of the 2 N10
in the US Treasury market following what
was really a more than a three sigma
move on Friday on yields to the downside
and suddenly we're here staring at an 88
to 90% probability that the Fed does
move this time well in their meeting in
September. Uh 370 right now is your
2-year yield. As you can see, we're down
across the J Japanese and the New
Zealand 10ear yield. Keep in mind Oz of
course is closed. just keep in mind.
Okay, very quickly, uh the dollar story.
Despite the
the weakness post the jobs report in
Friday, all things equal, we still saw
the biggest drop weekly
um uh weekly gain rather there uh on the
Bloomberg dollar index in all of 2025.
The bottom of your screen is 1211 right
now on the Bloomberg gauge. We'll unpack
the OPEC story for you in a moment.
Goldman Sachs has some commentary coming
through there uh on the back of the news
on the weekend and the approach going
into the open today and we'll talk more
about the key themes in this Chinese
market including number one intervention
out of the Hong Kong dollar HKMA on
Friday. Uh we'll look at the fix today
plus of course we are entering a fairly
decent earnings week plus key levels in
focus following declines. Suffice to say
that level you see bottom of your
screens is the next support level on
both those benchmarks which could be in
play given as you can see declines
Averil going into the open today.
Yeah, and certainly some questions as
well what the next sort of catalyst is
going to be in the absence of stimulus,
in the absence of a trade deal between
Beijing and Washington. And we're also
seeing these signs that the economic
growth has been slowing for the month of
July, right, after a pretty resilient
second quarter. So, begs the question
what all this is going to mean as well
for global oil demand.
>> Yeah, it does. And I think when you look
at all the signs currently, that's the
tricky part, right? Morgan Stanley will
be joining us in a couple of minutes.
What they're saying is the revisions
we've seen in the jobs report, which I
know you talk about, will reflect the
weakness ahead in the pipeline that goes
into the OPEC story uh overnight with
Goldman Sachs, of course, coming out and
reiterating their forecast there on on
on oil prices. But suffice to say, the
bottom line coming through in the
revisions on the jobs front, April, and
also the point that Morgan Stanley will
be making a bit later on is that the
tariff impact is still in the pipeline
and that is expected to show up in the
next few months. And I guess that does
underscore of course the you know the
less need for more or more oil in this
market. The jobs report of course was a
big one we're going into today as you
were pointing out April.
>> Yeah, massive job shocker and you
mentioned how US markets perform today.
We're seeing the extension of declines
in the Asia session. Really that big
miss on job creation out of the US and
then downward revisions for the months
of May and June. Trump fired the BLS
chief as well and this all kind of
coincided later in the session with the
early exit of Fed Governor Adriana
Cougler. So all in feeding into what we
might see from the Fed next month.
>> Yeah, it's going to be more a bit more
difficult really to price macro changes.
I guess is the it's the big question
there. But certainly when you look at
the the pricing across Fed1 futures or
if if swaps is the way you're you're
looking at that, it's about a 88% to 91%
probability right now that markets are
pricing in for a Fed rate cut uh in
September. This is of course a moving
target, but suffice to say it's more
than a base case in September. We're
getting a little bit more than two rate
cuts priced for the rest of this year.
And again on the note that Averil just
mentioned there, I recall if if you guys
recall that joke that Tom Cruz made in
one of the talk shows, he said he
described the stunt to his safety guy.
His safety guy said no, it's not safe
enough. So he got another safety guy,
right? Will replacing the person in
charge of statistics, change the
underlying statistics is the question.
And why are Marks treating this as a
riskoff event? Chris Weston is with us
to help us answer many of those
questions. Head of research at
Pepperstone Group. Chris, big drop on
equities in Friday. We're feeling that
near Asia Pacific. Does the price action
make sense to you?
>> Yeah, I mean it does. I mean I think uh
you know you got a market that was so
short of volatility overriding
strategies on the short end shortdated
10 years of had been very much in vogue
and you know we'd seen very very very
low realized volatility and the S&P I
mean S&P 10day realized V was at I think
got down to about four just just under
5%. Um and because of all those short V
strategies dealers were were long gamma
and I think that that's obviously being
looked at very very closely at the
moment. Um the market you know was quite
impervious to kind of any kind of shocks
to the system. Um but I think the yeah
you know the news on the payrolls has
brought in an element of left tail risk
back into the market and obviously those
volatility structures are being looked
at very closely. The gamma structures
need to be uh dealt with and hedged and
and unwound potentially. Um but I think
yes the magnitude of the revisions that
that got everyone talking um the removal
of the BLS uh chief was I I think is is
a big deal for markets. Um you talked
about the data the data does need to be
looked at. It's the methodologies you
know very much in in in the spotlight.
you know the the the recip the you know
the number of people um replying back to
these surveys is dropping has been in
structural decline for quite some quite
some time and that's what we use to
price risk and you know you look at the
data in the US um you know the BLS are
in charge of the CPI compilation and the
$2.1 trillion tips market is very much
based on that as well and that has us
trying to understand exactly how we
price risk and and you know understand
economics and forecast economics and
make the correct assumptions when the
data our disposal is you know prone to
inaccuracies as well and that makes you
know wearing out a high risk premium in
this market. So yes, absolutely I think
it does make sense. The question now
after the payrolls number is yeah we've
seen shocks to to the to the labor
market over the last couple of years.
And we've seen them, you know, last year
I think we talked about the the SAM
ruling and we saw three sub 100 payrolls
numbers. You know, are we likely to see
another scare that doesn't, you know,
actually eventuate to anything with the
unemployment rate going higher or is
this a situation now where we do need to
really consider about, you know, a
slowdown in the labor market, higher
unemployment, um, of which I think is a
really big deal for markets. I think
that's the question where we're starting
to see, you know, the the distribution
um change a little bit, that option
structure change and I think it does
need a higher volatility in this market.
>> So Chris, the the alternatives though to
markets trying to price and figure out
macro risk for example. I mean it's not
like we have an alternative. Um so I
guess my question is how important do
you think the next set of you know jobs
numbers will be this time next month?
Then what else could you do you think
could change this narrative that the Fed
cuts uh in September then?
>> I think you're right. I mean, you know,
we're not going to get a new BLS chief
um ahead of the CPI print. We're
certainly not, you know, we may get it
by the the next payrolls print on the
5th of September. But I, you know, I
think even if you were to put someone in
place now, the methodology is not going
to change. I mean, it's a an old school
way of of of compiling data. Um, you
know, it hasn't sort of kept up with the
technological changes that we've been
seeing. As I say, this the survey
replies have dropped marketkedly. I
mean, back in 2012, I think we saw a a
recipient rate um of about 63%. That's
dropped down to about 48%. So, the
structural issues that needed addressing
anyway, but now coming out and
politicizing um you know, the people who
are actually compiling the data is is
something that has gone under the radar.
It's all been about politicizing the
Fed. Now we're actually looking at you
know how this actually transcends into
the data and will someone come in who
obviously you know has us questioning
the efficacies there once again and
window dressing the samples effectively
to try and make um the labor market
better. I will say that you obviously if
you go back to the European model of
collecting inflation I getting off off
topic a little bit but you know the way
they use HICP is is you know does is is
perhaps a better way of doing things and
actually would bring down inflation in
the US by 20 to 30 basis points. So
that's a an interesting thing, but you
know, obviously we're not going to get
someone in place by that time. And
you're right, this is what we have to go
by and um you know, that's where we
price risk and the ALOS will continue to
to trade straight off the outcome off
the bat. Um but given as I say, we have
had these these employment scares
before, unemployment scares before over
the last couple of years, and they've
mostly been false starts. The next one
will be very critical. Um you know,
obviously we looked at the the level of
job creation from healthare. you take
that out, we've got poor jobs creation.
Um, and I think yeah, the market is
going to be buying volatility around
that that um non-farm payrolls on the
5th of September because it will
potentially open up a 50 basis point
debate.
>> Yeah. And markets somehow still just
pricing in 25 for next month. But Chris,
wanted to ask you as well. We're seeing
some undermining of confidence in US
data at a time when Fed's autonomy there
already these swirling concerns. What is
this going to mean for you know the
comeback in US exceptionalism?
>> We were looking last week at potentially
uh signs that it could be coming back.
Excuse me. Um you know we'd seen yeah
some pretty good earnings and I talked
about implied volatility in the S&P
being very low but you know with a
single stock level it's actually been
pretty high. one day moves have been,
you know, the highest we've seen for a
long time. Um, but the earnings were
were were pretty good. Um, you know, the
number of companies beating have been
better. We've been looking at the AI
story again that was really
outperforming and that was obviously at
the crux of the um the exceptionalism
story. And there's a capex boom that's
obviously clearly going through in
America at the moment. We've seen that
from the hyperscalers and their
commitment, their new commitment to
capital, which does give the
exceptionalism story, you know, just a
little bit of vigor. But I think also at
the heart of this now is is the
unpredictable policy settings we've been
seeing. And I think Trump's move to to
fire the bills chief um really doesn't
do that any favors. So I think if you're
a real money account, a corporate entity
who are looking at those hedging ratios
um or certainly on the real money side
for foreign investments, you know,
you're probably looking at those ratios
again and looking to continue to take
down that dollar exposure. Of course,
you know, the hedge funds and the
speculative accounts will continue to
watch what real money do. If they, you
know, look at those hedge ratios of Euro
dollar, for example, and and and yen exp
and into yen, you know, they will trade
that and that will continue pushing the
US dollar down. I do think the rate
stories are probably a little bit on the
effect side. So, is a little bit is is
fully priced now for now. I don't think
the data this week's going to change
that too much. Um, and we really need to
wait till the CPI print obviously
Jackson Hull. But, yeah, like I think
the the exception of the story was was
looking okay last week. I think some of
the more erratic nature of of the policy
settings again is just to you know does
have people yeah you reviewing that
situation once more.
>> At the same time we were watching the
dollar making a sort of comeback bounce
in the month of July. Do you see from
here on out there's a bit of a
distinction between the way it performs
versus EM currencies versus DMs?
>> Well, absolutely. I mean, I think yeah,
well, I think you're obviously going to
trade with a different beta and it
really depends if you're in there for
the carry side of things. I mean, I
don't think you're looking at the dollar
as a carry play at the moment because,
you know, you're probably looking at on
a volatility adjusted basis and and
seeing it less compelling on the back of
that. Um, but I think, yeah, I think
this is now a broad US dollar move. Um,
yeah, we've, yeah, we've got 80%
September price. I think that's fair at
the moment until we go into CPI and and
then obviously in Jackson Hole, I think,
um, you know, the the terminal pricing
is really what you want to be looking
at. Um, you know, if you're looking to
sofa reds at the moment, we're sort of
calling a trough uh, Fed funds rate
around sort of 3%. I think that's really
key. I think the market if we were to
see some weaker data from here um you
know if you go below 3% and we start
talking 280 on in and that sort of
longer ended of the reds um I think
that's the market showing you or telling
us that the recession probabilities will
increase the moment obviously we're
pricing some 15 20% implied probability
of a recession over the 12 months but
it's a moving target and I think you
know the one year one year rates or sofa
spreads are are going to tell you how
they're feeling about that I think if we
go below 3% are you gonna think you're
gonna you're probably going to get a
broad US dollar sell-off playing
through. So, you know, pick your poison.
But we are seeing spreads come in in
favor of of dollar selling and one year
one-year rates have come in marketkedly
recently. So, I think this is a broad US
dollar story. Um, and as I say, I think
we have had some scares before in the
unemployment rate, but perhaps this time
is is is a different situation and I
think that's the question that people
are asking this time around. And if we
get more evidence of that, sofa goes
below 3%, I think the dollar goes down
on a broad basis.
All right. And Chris, I guess next time,
we'll save this for next time. It's time
to look at high yield perhaps as a
leading indicator really of whether or
not markets have fully priced, of
course, a tariff impact. Chris Wesson,
fantastic. Thank you so much for getting
us warmed up here for the week head of
research at Pepperstone Group. Just
ahead here in shows, we're speaking with
Morgan Stanley about China's campaign
against excessive competition, the
impact of Trump's tariffs. interesting
two reports they put out and also coming
through later an exclusive with the Asia
CEO of Vietnamese EV maker VidFast as
they open their first factory in India
counting down to the open of trade in
Shanghai in Shenzhen where it and here
in Hong Kong where it's still an
extremely
hot humid and wet morning the amber
rainstorm warning though was lifted a
few minutes back doesn't change though
the situation quite literally on the
ground the opening bell 14 minutes away
this is the China
[Music]
couple of things they're watching in the
greater China region today. Of course,
as uh David was mentioning earlier,
those support levels, 50-day moving
average for the Honging Hungs, China.
Couple of sectors we are keeping tabs on
as well including EVs after a number of
them released uh sales data which showed
a slowing uh question marks about
whether the likes of BYD going to be
able to meet their annual target. Oil
energy stocks overall also in focus
after OPEC uh supply hike and then of
course we also got that UN fix a short
while ago I think below the 714 level on
dollar yen fix. Hong Kong dollar
weakness also seeping through against
the backdrop of uh that uh slide in the
dollar, David.
>> Yep. Um and yeah, I mean certainly a lot
of things to note there and I think some
of the things that Averil just mentioned
including CLP which reports today and
that takes us into the preview of this
week. Some big earnings are set to drop
on this market. Also some not too big
earnings but that you know clearly we
can talk about that next time. didn't
make the graphic though, but yes, Cathy
Pacific, Sweific, couple of
semiconductor plays are set to report
results. Uh this week, we also talked
about a sector to watch, which is
platform companies, and that's on the
back of the guidance that we now
understand uh coming out of the anti-
monopoly regulator um has issued some
information around fees online platforms
that they are now able to collect from
merchants. Here, let's bring in Min, our
China correspondent to talk us through
what the new guidelines are and what
they say.
>> Yes. So the new guidelines are meant to
prevent these platform companies. There
are only three of them, right? The big
ones to prevent them from in some ways
abusing their power to force merchants
to for example take part in promotions
essentially giving subsidies to either
consumers or to the platform companies
if you think about it. Um and to prevent
these platform companies from charging
fees that should be borne by the
platforms themselves. So these companies
are now being asked to also public
publicize their charging fees and rules
to prevent discrimination against these
merchants. And of course this is part of
this broader theme the government has
been hopping on to rein in that
disorderly price competition. A top
priority coming right from the top from
President C himself. And already we have
seen a number of sectors you know
including the EV sector the food
delivery platform and now the e-commerce
companies that are in focus as well. Now
the I think it was this time on Friday
that the NDRC came out and said they
will start naming and shaming of course
along these lines. Maybe incentivize
companies not to do this or dis
disincentivize. What do we know about
that?
>> Yeah, I guess this is one of the levers
that the government has because one of
the concerns is that given that a lot of
this competition is coming from private
companies. What can the government do?
Right. So we have seen how the
government first of all they asked the
companies to self-regulate and now they
are saying they are going to name and
shame them. to expose some of the worst
offenders for public scrutiny. And I
guess the third step would be eventually
if the breaches are very serious,
they're going to start taking some
punitive actions, but they didn't spell
out what that would be. So we had
already seen, for example, JD.com,
Mtoan, they had come out on Friday with
statements pledging to end that low
price competition. We saw the share
prices rising on Friday. This is
supposed to be good for industrial
profits and already we're starting to
see early signs. If you look at the PMI
on Friday, we saw contraction on the
private survey. But you look at the sub
index, even though the sub index for
orders had gone down, but the sub index
for prices had gone up. And that's an
early sign that perhaps this is already
having an impact.
>> Yeah. And Min addressing the price war
issue, I think, is also something that's
helped uh the Hong Kong stock rally. Uh
even though Hong Kong stocks are doing
pretty well all things considered, the
government is easing these listing rules
in the city uh IPO market looking really
buoyant there. What are the changes
being implemented?
>> Yeah, this is part of broader measures
to try to attract more companies to list
in Hong Kong. So two big changes. One is
that the minimum float requirement for
mainland listed companies to do a
secondary listing in Hong Kong has been
reduced. So initially it was 15% of
total number of shares that needs to be
offered in Hong Kong for listing to
proceed. Now it's going to be lowered to
10%. And the second big change is that
the allocation to retail investors is
going to be dropped from 50% to 35%.
What this does is that it gives
institutional investors more power in
pricing. uh although in the past if
there had been a lot of demand from
retail investors there's also this
clawback mechanism that allows a
reallocation to retail investors. The
purpose is essentially to prevent
overpricing during the book building
process which would increase the chances
of a price slump after a listing. So of
course all of this likely to make Hong
Kong the premier destination especially
for Chinese listed companies to seek a
second listing and part of the
government's effort to make make Hong
Kong this top premier destination for
financial investors globally.
>> Min thank you so much Bloomberg's China
correspondent Min Lo for us there and
let's take a look as well at how futures
are shaping up. We're seeing a bit of a
downdraft I think extension again from
the losses on Friday. A lot to unpack.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Let's take a look at how Hong Kong is
fairing. Pre-market. A bit softer.
That's the indication. Uh Hen Tech, I
think, could be that drag as well. And
of course, all this against the backdrop
of that US jobs report shocker from
Friday and a lot of uh risk appetite I
guess being taken off the table at the
moment. Uh David,
>> yeah uh being sucked out of this market.
Uh and I think when you look at some of
the big names on your screens coming up
shortly and I think BYD is going to be
very much in focus today, it's a quite a
steep drop in your pre-markets. We're
down 3% on that yet. Some uh car sales
numbers out in the weekend. Uh on top of
that when you look at the price itself
post of course the corporate action that
was announced back in June um at about
113 a pop that takes us to the lowest
level uh on the share price going back
to early April. So it's really gone all
the way up and then almost all the way
back down if you look at it over a what
a four or five month time horizon. Shena
Energy uh will and this was a filing
with the Hong Kong stock exchange late
on Friday. Shanghai shares are
suspended. Uh the company is proposing
to buy some assets held by China Energy.
We're looking at a coal asset. So keep
an eye on that. Zjin Mining big move up
in gold on Friday. We're flat right now.
3,400 thereabouts. There is the is the
futures price in Alibaba of course to
the downside. Matean we're looking at
that too on the back of sort of the
progress uh on the platform companies
which by the way will be a key topic of
conversation with Chattan Morgan Stanley
anti-involution on top of that tariffs
as well. to be as a focus. The opening
bell couple of minutes away. This is the
China show.
[Music]
Good morning. This is a quite literally
a a an interesting almost complete
opposite, you know, juxtaposition of the
weather when you look at uh what seems
to be a very hot, pleasant, maybe on a
more humid side morning in Shanghai. And
man, the the terrible weekend we've had
here in in Hong Kong with the black
rainstorm warning on Saturday. I don't
think we got one on Sunday, but it
certainly did feel like the same amount
of rain and gust. And if you made your
way into work this morning, you're
probably drenched. And it's cheap
Tuesday, as we say here, uh, in Hong
Kong. Although, although I have to say,
April, uh, the the Amber rainstorm
warning was lifted uh, going into the
hour today. So, that's silver lining, I
guess. April.
>> Yeah, a bit of relief, I guess. Uh, we
had gloomy weather over the weekend here
in Singapore as well. But aside from
that, let's take a look at how markets
are shaping up at the open. You're
seeing that decline on the CSI 300 uh as
we still wait out for the US China trade
truth potential extension. Of course,
this is the truth that runs out August
12th and all this coming as data has
already been showing us cracks not just
in the US economy, Chinese economy as
well. So that's all playing out into
trade today. Uh you're seeing I think
dollar China we can take a look as well
at this next page um tracking the moves
in the green bag as Chris Weston was
highlighting earlier it's a broad dollar
move so we're seeing dollar China below
the 720 handle we got a firm fix today
uh as well from the PBOC uh in the
meantime keeping tabs on the reaction
perhaps to China issuing guidance on
merchant fees set by online platforms.
This is something that is coming into
effect immediately. A draft of this was
already pushed out in the month of May.
Uh all part of efforts to sort of
address price wars. And speaking of take
a look at EV makers today because we did
get some of their sales numbers and
overall all month the likes of BYD uh
NEO as well. They've been showing that
slowing growth in sales. So as we've
been discussing earlier for the likes of
BYD how is it going to meet its annual
uh sales target? uh NEO, I think one of
its uh model releases caused a lot of
optimism, so going a bit of a different
direction there. Uh but the other stock
that we're watching in Hong Kong as well
is HKEX because uh David, we also got
Hong Kong easing listing rules for the
city and this is uh already on top of a
really
booming IPO market in the city.
>> Yeah, we're we're doing much better here
in Hong Kong than you guys there in
Singapore. Anyway, that's the that's the
competitive bit from my end today. But
yes, uh we we'll continue to track of
course HKX and certainly some changes
there in terms of I think the the float
uh and also what it means for
institutional investors there. Now, this
goes into I guess partly the trade
conversation which I think when you look
at markets today, there are two themes
right related themes. One is that
massive drop on the two-year yield on
Friday, 30 basis points, let's call it
that, 30 basis points. uh three standard
deviation drop on the US two-year yield
that goes into the data in the US of
course some changes there within the
labor force and then of course in charge
of the labor department their statistics
that goes into uh the tariff and trade
conversation right is there weakness
that's coming through in the economy
that we're now just starting to see
right while we do have trade agreements
taking place almost left and right we
still have of course some uh some some
some spots we need to fill uh the US
trade representative Jameson Gri
actually says that negotiations with
China specifically are going well. Have
a look.
>> They've really focused on rare earth uh
magnets and minerals. China has put a
global control on the world. Uh and so
for the United States, we're focused on
making sure that the flow of magnets
from from China to the United States and
the and the adjacent supply chain can
flow as freely as as it did before the
control. And I'd say we're about halfway
there.
And to help us understand the now and
the future implications of these trade
negotiations, Chattan is here with us on
set, chief Asia economist at Morgan
Stanley. Good morning, sir.
>> Good morning.
>> Signal from noise is something that
people have been trying to figure out
and markets have to some extent gotten
some relief because we're getting trade
deals here and there. you guys are of
the the thesis though that you guys are
operating on is that we still have yet
to see the actual impact economic impact
of everything that's going on.
>> Yeah, that's right. I think it reminds
me of 2018 and I was in New York uh in
my global role. We were analyzing the
tariff impact from Trump administration
in the first term and uh if you remember
by the time we were in September tariffs
were imposed in July announced in April
and markets were as if there is no
impact of these tariffs on the economy
uh and then finally eventually when the
numbers came out in November uh data was
slowing and then there was a reaction
that oh tariffs do matter so I think
it's it's something similar that is
emerging we saw that in uh Friday
payrolls data in the US uh if you see
the the trajectory of payrolls it has
been seen like it's having a clear
impact from the time tariffs were
imposed and then we are expecting more
to come through in the coming months and
quarters. Uh the reason why it happens
is that you know if you think about the
capex decisions that the corporate
sector is taking up it doesn't uh cut
down its investment spending
immediately. Um it it still continues to
the capex it it had announced before
tariffs was were imposed and it takes
about four five months before capex
slowdown begins to come through. uh and
we are seeing that in Asia's uh capex
data um we use we are tracking the
capital goods imports data from the
trade numbers because the GDP component
of capex takes time
>> right
>> and that has begun to slow down from the
month of June quite meaningfully for
Asia and and so we think that this is
also coming to Asia in form of a big
capex slowdown and then there will be
that re reverberations of US slowdown on
global trade and global trade slowdown
as well so this is all in pip line.
>> Is that a late 2025 story and as far as
how how and when it shows up in most of
the numbers or is it a more a 2026 story
at this point?
>> No, no, I think it's already started to
come through from the month of June. So,
we would expect that every month from
now on, you will see that down exactly.
>> Okay. Uh policy implications then um and
is that apparent now to policy makers
who are then looking at their own data
and trying to figure out where their
economy will be on almost on a
month-to-month basis?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think the job for
Asian policy makers is somewhat easier
because they are already dealing with
lowflation problem. Uh and at the same
time, you know, their uh growth has
already been not that strong. So we
think Asian central bankers have an
easier way to take the decision to cut
interest rates and that's what we're
expecting. Uh but that's a policy option
uh more to be used by Asia exchina.
China we think has relatively low
interest rates and so China will be
using more fiscal policy whereas Asia
exchina will be using more monetary
policy to defend this trade and growth
slowdown that is coming upon us
>> chan Ail in Singapore here you talked
about the capex slowdown where do you
see that most pronounced at the moment
in Asia
>> so it's almost like across the board and
we are seeing that data in a country
bycountry basis on capital goods import
so it's showing up in China, it's
showing up in India, it's showing up in
all the more trade oriented large
midsize economies like Korea. So yeah,
it's it's kind of broad-based uh that we
are seeing that Taiwan is an exception
as an economy, but you know that there
is a completely uh different trajectory
there because of the AI related capex.
Uh but everywhere else in the region, we
are beginning to see that um capex
slowdown coming in through.
Can you help us understand as well amid
all these moves in the currency we've
been seeing the dollar moves as well.
How is that affecting perhaps import
costs or you know export attractiveness
net net?
>> Yeah. So I think that's a good question.
The question that I would rephrase it as
who's bearing this tariff burden. So
first of all, in terms of the total
tariff value, um it's looking like it's
going to be $260 billion on Asia's
exports that the US will be charging. Um
at this point of time, um we are seeing
that bulk of this burden is being taken
care of by the US whether it's uh US
importers or US consumers. Um, Asia has
actually managed to increase prices in
the last two months by about close to
2%. Um, and the reason why Asian players
are passing on this to the US is because
um, they have seen currency appreciate
and currency in the region on an average
is appreciated by 4%. So they have said
that okay out of that 4% half of it that
is that the Asian exporters will take
and half of it they are additionally
passing it on to the US uh importers and
the tariff burden will be on top of
this. So you can see that as of now it's
largely being boned by the US. Now over
a period it's possible that as demand
softens uh US importers will push the
Asian exporters to cut prices. Uh but we
we reckon that it won't be like uh 2018.
In 2018, currency depreciation took care
of most of the uh tariff that were that
were imposed on China. So in effect
nobody bore the burden but in this cycle
um we think it is going to be largely
the US
>> and and chatton that brings us to the my
question is on trend shipments and
whether or not we have enough
information to to know really how
they're going to implement this and just
for conceptual clarity foreign value
added if you could just define that for
our viewers in very simple terms and
based on your research and data do any
specific economies stand out that might
be vulnerable as far as foreign value
added is concerned So I think so when we
looked at that analysis so but what we
tried to do is who is more dependent on
foreign uh rather imported stuff to
produce their output and Vietnam and
Thailand uh stood out they are the ones
which are more dependent on foreign uh
imports for value addition in their own
economy and so that will be the one uh
those economies will be the one which
will be at greater risk of um this
additional 40% tariff which the US
administration is talking about. Okay.
Uh I want to shift gears to the other
report which is also quite interesting
on anti-involution.
Can it solve a very simple question can
it solve the China's deflation problem?
>> Uh not really. Uh we think that you know
demand side is more important. Um there
is a knee-jerk reaction from the markets
that oh this is similar to 2015 to 17.
Uh but I would like to remind that in
2015 to 17 what happened is you had seen
a big reflation in the property sector.
We had also seen a big recovery in
global trade. So the demand side of the
equation got taken care of. Yes, the
supply reduction will help. Uh but we
think that you know you need that demand
support. And just one other big fra
picture framework question that I uh am
thinking about is is that like when when
you think about China's current
deflation problem, why are we here? We
are here because whenever there is a
downturn in the economy whether it is
property sector or exports uh policy
makers try to defend that growth target
with more investment in manufacturing
and infrastructure.
>> So unless there is a change in the
thinking that yes we are now not going
to give growth targets to the local
governments to achieve and at the same
time therefore uh take up low
investments in manufacturing and
infrastructure. uh it will be very hard
to completely get rid of this deflation
challenge.
>> Chan, when do you think maybe we will be
seeing a bit more forceful stimulus as
we kind of come up to the limits of some
of the measures including trade in
subsidy programs.
>> So as I mentioned uh the the real
solution is uh in the report that real
solution is to boost consumption. Um the
the idea behind that is that look you're
going to see if you're going to accept
that you can't keep investing in
manufacturing sector aggressively and
infrastructure aggressively
um and there is going to be a growth
challenge because property sector is not
going to come back. Global trade
dynamics means that exports is not going
to be strong. So how do you uh sort of
manage the aggregate demand in the
economy and that should be done with
consumption. Um the consumer trading
program is a temporary solution but we
need a structural solution to China's
demand problem and for that we have been
highlighting that you need to have this
uh social welfare program which is
targeted towards migrant workers. There
are 300 million of them. It's bigger
than a country like Indonesia
>> and there is no uh basis for us to think
that why should this population be not
getting the access to public healthare
education and housing. So if that is
made available they are running a saving
ratio of 46%.
Think of it 46% for this migrant workers
in terms of house uh household saving
rate. that compares to the nation's
aggregate of 31%. India at 22 and US at
five. So there is a a urgent need to
address this uh social welfare support
for the migrant workers and as they do
that they'll bring down the saving ratio
boost consumption on a structural basis.
>> Do you think the tariff impact has been
or will be a big enough catalyst for
these structural changes to unfold?
Uh I think so but I think it might take
some time. I think the the good news is
that they have at least recognized that
deflation is a problem. I know that we
have a different terminology in Ind in
China saying that it's anti-involution
uh policies but essentially at the heart
of it is a recognition of the deflation
problem that deflation doesn't help the
economy uh on a sustainable basis and so
I think that recognition is a good sign.
Um however as we discussed just now I
think we also need to see that there is
an acceptance that we can accept lower
real GDP growth uh that we are going to
actually boost demand with consumption
and then we are also going to cut back
on the excess capacities which exist. So
uh all of these three steps have to be
taken up and um at this point of time I
think it's it's going to take some time
before that recognition comes through.
It is a as Chet and you point out it is
a structural issue more than anything
else which takes time. Thank you so much
for taking the time to come in here. Of
course two things there we mentioned uh
the viewpoint on China and also the
viewpoint on trade chat and chief Asia
economist at Morgan Stanley. Just ahead
here on shows we'll hear from longtime
emerging markets investor Mark Mobius
join shows here. We'll discuss
navigating the uncertainty. Oo that's
something I haven't heard before.
Navigating the uncertainty over
President Trump shifting tariff policy.
That's coming up of course on the next
show inside with hes. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Some global news to get you up to speed
with this morning as well. President
Trump, as we've been discussing, has
fired the Bureau of Labor Statistics
Chief Erica McIntyre
weaker than expected jobs numbers. The
president called the data rigged,
claiming political bias. Economists from
both major parties are slamming Trump's
move as baseless.
Tesla has been told to pay $243 million
in a lawsuit over an autopilot crash in
Florida that killed a young woman and
seriously injured her boyfriend. A jury
in Miami federal court found that Tesla
was partly to blame for the collision in
2019. Tesla says it'll appeal the
verdict, adding that decision is a
setback to its efforts to develop
lifesaving auto technology.
Let's stick with autos. BMW says its new
electric SUV will be competitive uh in
every market, including in China, which
already faces, of course, intense
competition. Uh the CEO also told us
exclusively that the car maker is close
to reconsolidating its dealers in China.
Have a look.
>> Well, we're not waiting for the Noi
Classer, which which hits the market in
China uh in the second half of 26.
Um so shortly after we launch it here in
Europe
>> um we're not waiting until that car is
launched over there because a lot of
capabilities
uh especially on the digital side you
will already see currently in the cars.
So we will we will see fairly stable
volumes maybe maybe a little bit less
than last year but that is China is
already stabilizing for us and then of
course that will give an additional
growth momentum in China when this car
launches the car so we will be fairly
stable this year and it by the end of
next year we will see some growth there
we we're very sure especially because
this is also a symbol of the renewal of
BMW W
>> a completely new user experience
which is quite unique also in China.
>> You know
>> in China the competition is intense
particularly when it comes to the
software and it comes to the technology.
You have companies like Xiaomi coming
out with the S U7 priced at about
$40,000. Some have described it as a
Ferrari at $40,000. What gives you the
confidence you can compete in China?
past, current and future competencies we
have
when when you look how strong BMW is as
a brand and the what you mentioned the
turndown in the industry. This was also
partially intended by us because we were
retracting from markets which were not
profitable. Simply is that and as
everyone knows there are market segments
where you cannot be profitable and we
ask ourself growth itself does not have
a value in itself. If it's not proper,
we retract. And what we see in the
marketplace is a various thing, high
technological advance. And we will give
that answer with that car that we're
absolutely competitive in every market
including China.
But we are not staying in a market which
is not profitable for us. and how that
will develop, how prices will develop
this year and next year. This has to be
seen, you know, and we already see this
year stabilizing prices and that this is
partially an extremely unhealthy
competition that everyone knows that,
you know,
>> and and you have not been involved in
that price cutting competition in China.
BMW has not been part of that, but you
have been supporting your dealership
network. Does that support continue? You
know, you're always part of a market,
but we have not been continuous specific
markets and where where it was not
profitable. At the same time, we're
reconcilating
our dealer network that's happening at
the same time to what is happening in
the market. And by the second half of
this year, we will be we will be through
with that. We have less dealers.
>> We have more larger dealers. We have
more profitable dealers. We have more
experienced dealers. So that is
happening at the same time. Why is that
necessary? We have been growing by leaps
and bounds in China for the last 15
years. And I think maybe it's even a
good thing to take a break and
consolidate our business and that is
what's happening right now.
>> Does that consolidation mean reduced
workforce, reduced headcount in China
like some of your competitors, some
other automakers have cut headcount? Is
that something you're doing or planning
to do in China?
We also do that if you if you have less
less uh market volume of course you you
adapt to that. The main thing is you
have you have less but larger dealers
which means more profitable dealers more
efficiency.
>> There we go. That was T-MAC there. Our
colleague Tom McKenzie speaking with the
boss at BMW and really their efforts and
maybe what their China footprint looks
like in the months ahead. Coming up and
staying on cars here. going to be
breaking down the latest sales coming
out of the Chinese auto sector. BYD and
focus their big drop in shares out last
we checked. Uh tougher rules, rising
competition, and what that means for the
EV race in mainland China. That's ahead.
Plus plenty more. This is the China
Show,
[Music]
right? We're looking at mosquito
repellent stocks on the right here. So,
two two things to note here. One is here
in Hong Kong, we uh Hong Kong reported
its first chicken fever case. Second is
there's a full story on this and China
is deploying almost inch in size, these
elephant mosquitoes, these uh cannibal
mosquitoes to then battle what's going
on there. So, I guess something to keep
an eye on if if they're big enough.
Yeah, April.
>> Yeah, getting creative to to fight the
virus. But let's take a quick look at
gold stocks as well, cuz we're seeing
them tracking the Friday move in the
commodity.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China Show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300. Half an hour into
the session. We started the session on
the back foot. We're actually seeing
eating out some gains now in the sectors
we're watching as part of the movers.
Gold stocks are doing pretty well. Uh on
the other side of the equation, we're
seeing energy counters being a bit of a
drag on the mainland benchmark. David,
>> yeah, on the back of the OPEC plus
story, which we'll get into of course in
a moment there and of course Goldman
Sachs coming out and reiterating their
forecast for Brent's um I guess amidst
the uh the story coming out of OPIC plus
and well OPC plus and the group there of
course on the weekend. Uh all all that
being said, of course certainly the mood
across the Asia Pacific this Monday is
either muted if you're bullish
uh certainly risk averse looking at how
well number one the Treasury curve the
twos in the tens is trading and us
coming on the back of what the job
report actually means right so a
revision well the revisions was
something that really caught the market
off guard in fact it caught you as
president maybe offguard even further
arguably could tie those two two things
together uh and we're now looking at at
about an 88 to 90% probability of a rate
cut that starts now in September, which
is, as you can see, that's now a more
than base case. Uh although yields are
picking up a little bit, but it's
certainly nowhere near reversing the
what 28 basis point or so drop in the
2-year yield uh on Friday. Uh and we're
still, by the way, feeling that,
although we are coming off highs a
little bit on a AP pack bonds there. As
you can see, the drop that we're seeing
in Japan and New Zealand today is really
reflective of the cash down trade that
we're seeing uh because of the Treasury
move on uh on Friday, which then goes
into, you know, how do we need to be
looking at the path of the Fed now that
it's become more difficult to price uh
the macro outlook? And I think we had
two guests early on that basically uh
told us two different things of the same
story. one is um the US jobs report and
this is out of Morgan Stanley Chutton's
eye. I'm paraphrasing what he said here.
It's it's it's a reminder that while the
trade deals that we are seeing right now
is good news, um it's it's it in in many
ways underscores the data that's about
to deteriorate even further on a
month-to-month basis. And I think Morgan
Stanley's point there is when you look
at the amount of capital goods in the
drop there within the Asian trading data
uh the trade data for June has really
started to drop off quite significantly
and they do expect that to continue to
reflect uh on a month-on-month basis
further down the road. Now that takes us
into the jobs report and Chris Weston
who joined us earlier this time in the
last hour and what he basically said is
you know we're not talking 25 for
September wait until the jobs report for
August which comes out this time next
month because that then opens up the
debate for Qbite.
>> We have had these these employment
scares before unemployment scares before
over the last couple of years and
they've mostly been false starts. The
next one will be very critical. Um, you
know, obviously we looked at the the
level of job creation from healthare.
You take that out, we've got poor jobs
creation. Um, and I think, yeah, the
market is going to be buying volatility
around that that um non-farm payrolls on
the 5th of September because it will
potentially open up a 50 basis point
debate.
Arguably, I think the investor focus has
shifted from some of these inflation
numbers and perhaps what we're going to
get out of Jackson Hole Symposium to the
growth slowdown given how it's already
showing signs of eating into the jobs
market. Uh we are seeing these downward
revisions also raising questions of how
much can you trust the data uh and that
resurfacing conversation. Are we going
to see a 50 basis point cut from the
Federal Reserve next month which is of
course uh what happened last year?
>> Yeah. Yeah. And you know how quickly
does that become apparent to markets
because you know we're you know we don't
have the emotional bandwidth to deal
with the sort of day that bond market
had on Friday. Uh not let alone of
course all the trade headlines that have
yet to drop of course and that takes us
into the other market theme which is
still the lack of progress as it
pertains to US China. you know the trade
deal and we know of course of this
extension in the truce you know where
are we on the key issues of the day
right rare earths for example I think
James and Greer in fact just commented
on that and I think incrementally that's
your new information this morning have a
listen to how he ph and phrased that
>> they really focused on rare earth uh
magnets and minerals China has put a
global control on the world uh and so
for the United States we're focused on
making sure that the flow of magnets
from from China to the United States and
the and the adjacent supply chain can
flow as freely as as it did before the
control. And I'd say we're about halfway
there.
>> To help us unpack all this and how it's
playing out in EM's, Bloomberg EM macro
strategist Marcus Wong joins us. Uh so
Marcus following the slide in the dollar
from Friday we're seeing a bit flat now
but all Asia currencies pretty much
stronger against the dollar following
their weekend expected NFP on Friday and
then these heightened bets of rate cuts.
Are we back to this sell America mode?
>> Well that's a very brilliant question. I
think markets have been absolutely
whiplashy is that that's the word to
use. Um you know Asian curry's dollar
was rebounding up until the end of last
month. I think July saw the first bounce
in o over over in a year essentially and
a lot of it you could say was you know
was overextended overextension of
bearish dollar bets but you know the
numbers on Friday really put back into
focus um the the bearish dollar scenario
and I like to emphasize that you know
even though some we spoke to they were
you know they were viewed that there'll
be a dollar bounce in the near term but
near it was near consensus that there
will be a over the over the medium to
longer term the bearish dollar theme
would will come back into play and we
are getting a reminder of that. We got a
reminder of that on Friday. And um also,
you know, underlying all that, you know,
it's not just, you know, fat rate cuts
of 25 basis points, 25 basis points or
50 basis points, but it's also the
underlying theme of the sell America uh
to trade. Um essentially fat
independence and policy continuity. And
I think we didn't we investors got a
sense of that when you know Trump fired
the labor statistician after the data
was released reminding investors that um
you know the whole concept idea of fat
independence is always in a sense um
lurking around the corner is under under
threat in a sense um you know although
we are not definitely not not where we
at in April um you know trade deals have
quite a lot of trade deals have been
done although as as you mentioned
earlier the US China trade deal is still
ongoing but trade deals across other
economies have been closed. So in a
sense policy continuity which is another
key pillar uh for the cell dollar team
has improved from April but there's
still quite a lot uncertainty instead.
So I think the sense in the market is
that um while you know we don't while
people expect a huge dollar rally moving
forward uh the slide in in April um that
we saw may not be may not be so as as
obvious and what we could see in the
next uh few months or small will be a
dollar in a consolidative mode. Um so
what does this mean for investors? So
quite a few investors we spoke to um
were quite reluctant to for example go
into Asia uh carry trades in Asia during
the summer months uh because you know if
the dollar is in a consolidative mode uh
essentially that would be quite negative
for carry and negative for investors.
Uh Marcus, Taiwan dollar, Korean one,
Malaysian ringit may be insulated as you
point out here on your post on the back
or perhaps maybe if the dollar slides,
that's a big if, of course. Why those
three specifically?
>> Well, all those three are essentially um
economies with huge foreign currency
deficits. For example, in Korea and
Taiwan, um pension funds have invested
heavily in US um you know, assets over
the past decade or so. Um so of course
when the dollar slid you know and what
we saw we saw a glimpse of that in May
um there was a huge rush by exporters as
well as pension funds uh to essentially
uh hedge themselves hedge their dollar
exposure uh so for you know Korea and uh
Taiwan that's especially true for the
pension funds companies and well for
Malaysia um a lot of you know Malaysia
is a current account surplus economy so
a lot of corporates actually again had
dollar deposits obviously because their
returns were much better doing a period
of you know um you know US
exceptionalism. But of course with the
dollar you know and widening the way it
has um you know a further hedging or
further bringing repatriation of uh
offshore dollars will ex will
essentially boost uh the currencies of
these economies.
>> Marcus thank you so much Marcus Wong uh
for us there. Right now, let's take a
quick look at how oil prices are fairing
as well because we did get OPEC plus
pretty much as expected, completing the
reversal of this giant supply cutback
that it made in 2023 with plans for uh
540,000
47,000 barrel a day output increase next
month. Our Bloomberg oil and shipping
reporter Wayan Sunoon is with us. So
will talk us through this move that was
pretty much as expected though it is
bring these barrels back to the market
earlier than scheduled.
>> Right. Um so thanks April. Um so what we
hear is that OPAC is planning to bring
back 547,000
barrels per day from September onwards
and then we're going to see a pause. So
what essentially this means is that they
have brought back what they've committed
to over 2.2 or 3 million barrels per
day. Um, and that's a pause. But what's
left on the table is 1.66 million
barrels per day. And the traders are
looking for signs of what OPEC is going
to say at the September meeting. But for
now, it seems that the supply glut uh
for oil is in focus as we can tell from
Goldman Sachs and Wall Street banks
retaining the uh oil price forecast. So
they've baked all of this into their oil
price forecast. We are seeing oil
expected to trend downwards uh towards
around $65 per barrel. And and why is
that so? Because we think um that the
global economy is is going to weaken
from here on out. We'll pass peak summer
demand for oil. Um as we've mentioned
earlier, we have the trade deals um the
trade tariffs that Trump is going after
and all these as to a weaker global
demand uh picture for oil.
>> Yeah. and it's showing up in US jobs
data. It's showing up in some of the
Chinese economic indicators as well. We
still have some lingering questions
though because OPEC didn't really
provide that clarity on 1.66 million
barrels per day. So, how are you viewing
that aspect?
>> That's right. Um, so we think um OPEC
might be keeping its cards close to its
chest because there is still this issue
of the Russia war in Ukraine and what
Trump is doing about that. um he has
intimated uh more more aggressive tones
or maybe uh hinting at possibly ending
the war um come what may. Um so there is
that overhang of sanctions. Um maybe
potentially more of those on Russia,
maybe more on Iran too. As we have seen
last week, um Trump, the Trump
administration has come out with a huge
package uh targeting uh Iranian oil uh
exports. So sanctions are still pretty
much in focus and I think this is what
traders are concerned about and and for
OPEC to not hint um what it's going to
do at September I think it's sitting
there uh trying to see what else could
uh come in a uh in the coming months
ahead and react accordingly
>> leaving some of that optionality I guess
for them on the table. Uh Wayan, thank
you so much. Way soon for us there.
Still ahead on the China show, we'll dig
into what Hong Kong's new stable coin
regime means for the city's crypto hub
aspirations and immoka brands and Certic
join us next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. Let's turn our attention
now to the auto space India specifically
where you have Vietnamese EV maker
Vinfast launching its first factory in
India. Now the company's aiming to have
get this 35 dealerships across across
India in at least 27 cities by by year
end. Quite a roll out there. Joining us
exclusively is Farm Chowo Asia CEO at
Vinfast. Mr. Chiao, thank you so much
for joining us and again we were talking
just before we came on air on quite an
eventful day. Just help us understand
how you guys got here to this point, how
quickly we're now here and what your
initial targets are for this plant.
We are very delighted and excited to
open our first ever plant outside
Vietnam today in India and it take us 15
months to be able to complete this
factory and we are pleased to see the
huge development. Uh sometime we think
that we are able to make uh from the
impossible into possible and this is the
first stage of our three phases uh
development uh plan in India. uh this
first stage we have 50,000 units per
year and we try to uh scale up 150,000
um in the ne next stage and um uh and
everything is all set uh to launch our
vehicles uh this month only in August uh
we are going to launch officially the
the the car announce the price and now
we have quite few some bookings so we
are always set to deliver the car for
the customers before the festive seasons
begin.
>> Okay. Well, it seems like things are
moving quite quickly to the point you're
making there. I think you mentioned some
figures just now in terms of the the you
know the initial capacity of the plant
and how you plan to increase that into
the future. Give us a sense really of
how large this plant is at the moment.
>> Yes. Um we uh plan first uh for this
year is few thousands uh vehicles to be
launched and we focus on VF7 and BF6.
The reason why we launch our brand by
VF7 and VF6 because we want to position
ourself as the premium global uh car
maker uh which is also accessible. uh in
other market like in US and in uh
European Union we have launched our VF8
and VF9 uh whereas in Southeast Asia we
launched VF5 VF6 and India we decided to
launch VF7 in order to um target the mid
segment that's number uh number two in
India we uh apply the strategy of um CKD
we don't import CPU to start our food
operation but we wait until today we
complete our uh uh CKD factory and from
now on we will deliver our car which are
CKD here in India and number three we
are going to build the whole ecosystem
here uh what we call the five conscious
ecosystem number one we we build the
plan number two we develop a network of
dealers as you just mentioned about 32
dealers acrossing 25 cities number three
we are going to build whole ecosystem of
v uh v Big green of our charging point
to make sure that the charging point of
Vin will be available to our VFAS
customer. Number four, we are about to
bring in our GSM which is a taxi and
help riding company to promote the use
of the EV. And number five, eventually
we also bring it out uh green future
which is a rental company. So we create
a whole the whole ecosystem to back up
our sale of EV. In addition to the
ecosystem of VFAS, we are about to bring
in also the whole ecosystem of V group
starting with the smart city of V group
with the green um green energy. Uh Vinc
for the hotel VM make for the hospital
and V school for the for the schools. So
the whole school and the whole ecosystem
back up our brand.
That sounds like a comprehensive plan
that might cost a lot of money. I I need
to ask you, have you secured all the
financing you need for everything?
>> Oh yes. Um we have uh vision uh to build
uh the whole ecosystem in India. Uh
subsequently we are in discussions with
all the banks and um private equities
and um investments banks and uh all is
set.
>> Understood. And if you could give us
maybe a ballpark figure, how much do you
think you'll need for everything?
>> So for the time being, uh we have a a
long-term commitment to invest in our
ecosystem for the plan. It's a long
term. uh we uh have a commitment to
invest here 2 million US dollar. The
first phase is 500 million US dollar.
Uh, of course we enjoy the support from
the local government and as well as the
federal government uh in various
incentive scheme and that is for our uh
power factory and uh for the um uh
development of uh networks uh sale
networks we are in uh we have been uh
signed up with five major banks. We have
signed uh an overview with them. We are
going to announce very soon after the
generations of our plan today and they
have are ready to support our dealer
financing as well as retail financing
for the uh for the V green. We are also
in discussions with a number of private
equity and banks in order to support
that system. That's what we have done in
in Indonesia in the Philippines and for
other uh for other projects we are
waiting until the finalizations of the
physibility study and then we start the
negotiation with our potential banking
partners.
>> Thank you for the clarification on the
financing part. I want to ask you now
about strategy on the ground in
operations. As you know it's this is a
very competitive market. uh the numbers
we put out 35 dealerships across the
country in at least 27 cities by year
end. Do you plan on doing this by
yourself? Are you are you open to uh
local partnerships to be able to
penetrate this market quicker?
Uh in in principle we are open to all
possibility of partnering but for the
time being we think that we have enough
u requests and applications for
dealership across those 25 27 cities
even we have more than enough in order
to prepare for our next phase of
expansion in 2026.
Uh so basically I think all is uh we
feel very comfortable with with the pace
we are doing it at the moment. So
partnership yes uh joy venture let's see
what is what kind of joy venture. So at
the moment we feel very at ease and
comfortable with the space that we are
moving for the time being.
>> Understood. I want to ask you then about
the VF6 VF7. You point out of course
these are your initial foray into the
market. Have you thought about pricing
strategy in in in those specific product
categories for those two models?
>> Yes, we have conducted a survey. Uh
before that we did a market survey for
our feature list and we tries to uh
localize the feature list make it sure
that those feature list will meet the
expectation of the Indian customers.
Number one and number two we realize
that India is a very price sensitive
market. Therefore we uh we are uh we
have analyzed what is the best price
that we are going to launch. Uh we think
that it will be very competitive. We are
going to announce that in a few days to
come after the inuration of the plan and
we also during that ceremony we also uh
reveal the feature list of VF7 and the
VF6. So please give us some few more
days and you will see what are the
prices that we are going to come up
with. Sure. We look forward to the
announcement in a couple of days. Uh Mr.
Cha, I guess a broader question on
competition. How cognizant are you over,
you know, the competitive advantages
that Chinese EV makers might have and
how do you plan to combat that
competition?
>> Um uh in theory, we don't see uh any EV
maker as our competitors. uh we see Ice
car as our competitor because we have a
mission of making this planet greener
and we are supportive of a smart
mobility uh advanced technology. Uh
therefore we don't see any um EV maker
company or like Chinese uh EV maker as
our competitor. That's number one.
Number two, um we come uh into India as
well as in other markets with our three
core uh strategy. Number one, a very
good quality. Number two, affordable
price and number three excellence of
after sales service. And in additions to
that, we are back up by the whole
ecosystem of Winfras. as I share with
you, it's not only the uh the quality of
the plan. It's not only the quality of
uh the affordability of the price but
also the whole ecosystem of the third
party workshops.
>> We build 120 workshops across the
country for this space and in additions
to that we'll be bring back about our
old lineup.
>> Mr. Chow, all
>> yes,
>> Mr. Chow, that's all we have time for.
Thank you so much and we look forward to
hearing updates from the company
including of course in a few days of
course the pricing there Asia CEO at
Ventfast.
[Music]
All right, it's actually quite quiet
across these markets and I'm not going
to spend a lot of time on it because we
don't have a lot of time but the bottom
of your screens tells you everything you
need to know about these markets about
an hour into the session.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the Oo,
the China Show. There's no let up in
this weather
uh in Hong Kong. It's Yeah, I mean, it's
gotten to a point where you know what?
If you don't have to be outdoors, it's
quite challenging out there. black
rainstorm warning on Saturday. I think
he had a similar but not quite a black I
believe yesterday and this time and just
this morning amber rainstorm warning but
then uh that signal has been removed but
still as you can see it's still going to
be quite a a rainy session and
unpredictable weather I think as the
Hong Kong Observatory has outlined for
us um right after of course that typhoon
which hit us I'm losing track of time
now about a week back or so right now um
let's get a sense of the big source
across Hong Kong. It's the what date is
it? August 4th, which means that clearly
a couple days into August. It's also a
couple of days since August 1st when we
had the stable coin regime beginning
here in the city. If you want to have
more information about that, of course,
we'll get you that round table in a
moment. But certainly the HKMA has now
put out those guidelines and what that
means as far as licensing the deadline
for licensing what you need to be a
Lency. Um and perhaps what the next few
uh weeks and months are going uh to be.
Okay. Actually, you know what? While I
while I mention that just to correct
myself, Amber rainstorm is up again.
Second time this morning. Okay, there we
go. How quickly the weather uh the
weather changes. So
yeah, umbrellas, rain boots if that's
your thing or cheap shoes as they say.
Okay, let's take it back to stable
coins. So you have Asian markets of
course updating their stable coin rules.
For one, you have President Trump uh
signing into law this US dollar peg
cryptocurrencies and that law there that
has certainly intensified number one and
number two instilled a sense of urgency
among the region's authorities including
of course what I mentioned just now here
in here in Hong Kong. Let's bring in
Ryan Weekes, our senior AP pack crypto
editor with us out of KL today to talk
us through this. Yeah, like it's the the
the race is on, Ryan. As they say,
>> it is. Yes, it's it's it's very
striking. There's a lot happening across
Asia. I mean, just to take a step back,
stable coins are type of cryptocurrency
pegged to an established fiat currency,
and the dollar absolutely dominates the
stable coin market. I think there's more
than $250 billion worth of US dollar
pegged stable coins out there in the
market. Very little by comparison of any
other fiat currency. And you know that
market is is forecast to grow to
something like well more than two
trillion I think uh with Trump getting
behind stable coins in the US. So uh
across Asia now you're seeing markets
they they have to respond. Um and
authorities are drawing up uh
legislative regimes for potential
issuers all across Asia, including as
you said in Hong Kong.
>> Yeah. And you know, we're now a few days
past that, you know, effective date,
August 1st. Uh what do we know about the
guidelines here uh in Hong Kong out of
the HKMA? Ryan?
>> Yes. Yeah. So in Hong Kong, I think
they're particularly looking for uh
companies that envisage a sort of a
practical use case for uh stable coins
whether in payments or crossber
emittance or something like that. Um and
they'll put a lot of emphasis on
authorities put a lot of emphasis on uh
whether potential issuers have sort of
realizable plans for stable coins as far
as I understand it. Um and yeah and you
know right across the region I think
companies feel compelled uh not
companies sorry countries feel compelled
to do something because uh people in
Korea or Hong Kong or wherever it may be
they're already trading stable coins but
they're trading US dollar peg stable
coins and in some ways or at least in
some cases that's happening in an
unregulated way. Um so you know there
are fears of capital flight in these
countries. Um but I think it's it's uh
what country what authorities are now
thinking about doing to try to control
that is licensing local firms to issue
currencies pegged to local currencies
whether it be the one or the Hong Kong
dollar or whatever and then they'll have
more oversight over the stable coin
space and they'll hope that they can
better sort of control capital flight
risks.
>> Yeah. And yeah, certainly light touch is
certainly not the not the press release
as far as some of these jurisdictions
are concerned. Ryan Weekes, thank you so
much for the for the overview there. Our
senior editor on crypto joining us out
of out of Kale. Let's let's get into the
weeds of things here in Hong Kong.
Joining us now on this round table
coming up is Yatsuio, co-founder,
executive chairman Animoka Brands. Of
course, you may know him already uh
which has participated by the way in the
HKMA stable coin sandbox as part of that
JV. He joins us out of Singapore this
morning. And here on set with us uh in
Hong Kong is Esme Pa, head of capital
markets and strategic intelligence at
blockchain and smart contracts cyber
security firm uh sir Kay. Okay. Uh
Yatsu, let me let me start with you. The
guidelines are out. Anything that stood
out to you so far based on the your
initial glance there?
No, I mean I think a lot of what was uh
discussed already earlier and the plans
are sort of known and it's going to
initially we're looking at the Hong Kong
dollar and of course it's currency
backed onetoone which is basically the
expectation. I think you can view this
first phase of the stable coin rollout
as really still part of the extending of
essentially experimentation as well
making sure that things are moving well
kind of like you know walk before you
run type of approach. Uh but also we
should also bear in mind that things are
moving faster as was previously
mentioned just because of what's
happening in the US because the counter
response of course what's happening in
the US especially with the genius act is
that you should expect that every major
bank in the US is probably going to be
issue a stable coin of their own and
then of course you know Hong Kong is
actually slightly ahead of the game and
that actually it passed legislation a
little bit um earlier but every place
that has major global trade is going to
have to do something around stable coins
because imagine if you're doing business
with the US or in the future with Hong
you have to be able to receive the the
stable coin and if your local
legislation doesn't allow that then you
actually can't do business with that
area. So we see quite a bit of adoption
in the area but nothing in particular
that stood out to us um that wasn't
already known um from from from previous
discussions and consultations
>> right let let me bring you in your
thoughts on the same question anything
that stood out to you so far now that
the the sort of the floodgates are open
and now people can start accelerating
their own plans
>> right sure I would say that for HMA
stable coordinance so it's an excellent
piece of work and the reason I say that
is for two reasons so first of all it's
very forwardlooking so already embedded
in uh uh details would be number one
that there's going to be multicurrency
stable coins that might be a possibility
in the future and then the second is
that it's also very commercial it
already guides a lot of the applicants
to focus on different use cases and I
think ultimately stable coin is a scale
game so it's uh again tying back to
Yat's point so it will be the regulated
players like the banks and also the
tangerine issuing banks who will be
first to get the license
>> yeah and I guess to point to the point
you're making there as just To follow up
on that, it's a scale operation to your
point. What do you think the next phase
of that scale will look like? Is that
going to be beyond the Hong Kong dollar?
Is it going to be just big players
getting the license? How does that look
to you?
>> Right. I will focus on cross juris
jurisdictional alignment. So I think the
name of the game here will be again
about scale. So there needs to be
passporting and for there to be
optimized cost of market entry for
different jurisdictions. So again with
US having its genius act and also with
Korea, Hong Kong and also Mika and the
EU having uh related regimes. So I think
uh it will be very easy for different uh
players to passport into different
jurisdictions and that again ties back
to uh easing the cost of entry. I do
want to add one point and it's that with
Hong Kong being the conduit of capital
flows between Beijing and also the rest
of the world. So a Bman B de denominated
stable coin which is a possibility would
be a very attractive proposition
>> yet on that last point that Sme just
brought up is that you think you know a
a a a a tokenization of the remn let's
put it that way is that you think the
end potentially the end goal here what
do you think
>> I mean I think that's certainly what a
lot of people are excited about
obviously that's not in the cards at the
moment there's a lot of things that
obviously need to be worked through uh
but if Consider for instance that Hong
Kong has always really been the
financial gateway for China in one form
or the other when you think about what's
happening with you know RMBB um in Hong
Kong or dim sum bonds for instance uh it
makes sense that sometime in the future
there should be a consideration around
that but I think the one thing I also
want to point out that you know um the
the the part here is about global trade
and finance as something that is around
influence as well if you look at what's
happening with the dollar stable coin
how many countries in places like South
America or in Africa for instance are
now all using dollars because of stable
coins. They don't need necessarily need
a bank account to be able to interact
with essentially the US dollar. You can
certainly imagine that other countries
around the world as including Hong Kong
will be looking at how to extend their
global trade. I mean Hong Kong has
always been a global trade center. It's
always been a finance hub for that. How
do you extend that reach and that
influence and that comes through stable
coins,
>> right? And that brings up another uh
aspect of this yat and I want to get
your thoughts as someone who's actually
part of just the overall ecosystem here.
Um how does this affect anti-money
laundering and what what what
requirements do you think uh will be
necessary to ensure of course that you
know that that those holes are plugged
and in terms of the licences being able
to meet those requirements. Do you see
that as being a potential challenge
short term if you're not a bank? Of
course.
>> Yeah.
So of course, so first of all, um I mean
I think to Es's point, I mean obviously
the the banks and we're we're joint
ventured with standard chartered on this
effort are obviously going to be a big
part of this. But look, I mean KYC, AML,
the regime doesn't change just because
you're a stable coin, right? And even
today in the whole web 3 crypto space,
we're already doing KYC and AML when we
onboard people. The one thing that I
think a lot of people often don't
understand about our space is that it's
actually much easier to track what
happened with the transaction. So, you
know, in a way in the traditional
finance world, you trust the bank to
tell you, I've done the work. But
actually, because it's a blockchain, you
can trace all of that. And so, it's
really a question of, you know, how far
do you want to trace back? But you can
trace back really literally the original
origin when it's coming out of exchange
on an onchain transaction. So,
blockchain actually adds more
transparency. And so, I think KYC and
AML regimes will largely stay the same,
but will probably become more optimized
and perhaps even more interoperable.
Esme may uh let let me bring you back in
in terms of the everyone's now waiting
for who are the groups that are applying
for the license. They have I think until
the end of September to be able to put
in that application with the HK. I mean
what are your expectations here in terms
of how many groups are going to put in
their applications here? Is it going to
be a flood or very very slow handful of
of applicants here?
>> Right. I was expected to be the
floodgates are open obviously so I
expect a lot will go in but I think the
key question is who's going to emerge as
the uh triumphant lency right so on that
point I think the most important will be
again uh platform economies which is
unique in Hong Kong's jurisdiction so we
already see that uh different stable
coin sandbox uh players for example ant
also JD so they in the game of uh say
trade uh settlement globalization and
second around fintech so I think these
are the potential players that could
potentially get a license as well in
addition to uh the consortium and also
with different banks.
I want to get a sense of I forget where
I read this and I apologize if I'm not
being completely
uh sort of accurate on this but it it's
is it by invite only if you want to
apply or you know has the HKMA put out
criteria that is transparent enough for
every as long as you meet capitalization
and all the other requirements are you
free to put in an application what's
your understanding of of of the
application regime
>> right I would uh fear towards the latter
so HMA has already put out a very clear
regime and the number one thing will be
obviously reserves. The second will be
uh having um the ecosystem requirement
which includes business use case and for
viability. So HMA has laid out very
clear rules at the same time because of
the whole passporting phenomenon. So a
lot of global uh tier one stable coin
issuers will be slated to be putting in
an application as well.
>> Okay. Yeah. Can I ask you this is
completely out of curiosity but I guess
a natural progression of the
conversation. Are you are you guys
interested? Have you put in an
application?
>> Oh, well certainly interested. I mean, I
think we're one of the three uh sandbox
participants. Uh so, you know, our joint
venture with Stan Charter and Hong
Telecom was one of the participants
together with uh JD and RD. So, of
course, we're interested. You know, our
plans yet to be announced, but obviously
that's something very important for us.
I would also say that the mental model
to think about stable coins in Hong Kong
is I don't think of it as something that
even though you know, we know a lot of
companies are going to try to apply for
it. I think uh you know the HKMA put out
a statement actually I think it was last
week sort of you know warning people a
little bit about look you know it's
probably better for you to consider
partnering with them with those stable
coin partners because there's a little
bit of you know basically sort of I
guess um exuberance in the market which
you know is um is something that some
some parties might be concerned around
and I think the mental model to me is a
little bit like 5G licenses and again
it's not an exact parallel but it
doesn't really make sense to put out you
know 50 or 100 stable coin licenses
right you want to be very strategic it
has to be companies that have you know
good capital, good access, know the
technology um and also be able to sort
of you know present that type of you
know sort of you know capital flows and
security around that. So this isn't just
for everyone we're talking about you
know you know dealing with money here
and uh and and that is sovereign. So so
this is something again that's going to
be much more tactical. So you know for
those who are looking at sort of looking
at companies in the space look at the
companies who actually have the
credibility in the space and have also
the knowhow and have worked in the space
for a while. So I think there's just a
handful of them for the time being but
you know overall very positive of
course.
>> Of course yet final question in fact for
both of you but yet let me let me pose
this to you first. The you know the the
the notion that you know we we
overestimate the the short term what the
underestimate the benefits over the
longer term particularly when it comes
to technology. You're the expert here in
this specific case. What are the
underappreciated opportunities you think
that people are sleeping on?
>> Gosh. I mean you just have to I guess
one perfect parallel in our space is
just look at the price of Bitcoin as a
perfect sort of parallel of sort of you
know underappreciating and and sort of
you know potentially overappreciating at
certain times but in in in any extent um
sort of crossber trade is going to be a
massive one um also the other thing is
around sort of mass financification
of various industries around this right
stable coins doesn't just represent the
access to trade it's the way that people
get into the sort of web 3 and crypto
arena so when you're buying a stable
coin You're going to be using it not
just to use your sort of day-to-day sort
of business in certain countries because
in some ways you already have that. It's
going to be opening up the digital
economies. That means buying more tokens
or more digital assets or maybe other
forms of online advertising. And if you
consider how much time we're spending
online today, which is basically the
majority of our time, most of our
commerce and activity in the virtual
sense is already happening digitally and
stable coins is going to be that venue.
So really what stable coins will do is
it's going to completely expand and in
our way sort of we think of it as a
Camry explosion of digital activities
that are digitally native as in things
that are on chain. So stable coins is
going to be a huge mass on border for
the for the broad sort of call it web 3
digital asset space and I also think
it's going to create a lot more mass
adoption in terms of financial literacy.
Think about how many people understand
money and finance. It's not a lot of
people out there because the daily
activity that they do online aren't
actually captured around that. Like for
instance, we're doing student loans on
chain which stable coins are perfect as
an example. So students today are
already receiving their loans in places
like Philippines or Indonesia through
web 3 through stable coins, right? Um as
opposed to a bank account which has more
restrictions. They can also reach into
you know villages or places where people
who don't even have a bank account,
right? So these are perfect use cases
and there's billions of people who are
not even financially included yet.
They're going to all go online and
they're not just going to be online
because of a phone. They're going to be
financially included. So it's going to
add a lot more liquidity, a lot more
growth in the market and expansion in
this in this industry.
>> Esme, same question. Opportunities that
you think are underappreciated and you
know what what's the advice for
companies that are looking to adopt
SLissue,
>> right? Uh first of all, I do agree with
Gasp point that uh stable coins or
digital assets is a positive sum game.
So every stakeholder in the ecosystem
stands to benefit. But I think what
comes out as the um failure accretive
and also the failure capture along the
stable coin fellow chain going forward I
think we're going to shift from the
issuance layer which is a stable coin
issuers to the application layer that's
very similar to phenomenons in
innovative technology such as what we
see for AI. So we see that right now the
value is shifting from issuance and also
uh ecosystem compute all the way to
applications. So uh just to cut to the
chase what's going to benefit number one
will be cross uh crossber settlement
second will be fintech players that
directly own the client relationship and
also the user base.
>> Fantastic. Thank you so much to to both
of you for taking the time to help us
really understand and uh translate this
into English a lot of the Greek uh
letters out there. Uh Yatsio in
Singapore co-founder executive chairman.
Thank you. At Animoka Brands and Esme
Pow here in set with us, head of capital
markets and strategic intelligence at
Certic. Okay. Uh an update out of
Singapore. You might have seen it
already. Billionaire uh Unbang has
pleaded guilty to abetting obstruction
of justice. That's what we know so far.
We're still waiting for more details,
but we will leave that idea for with you
for now, and we'll get you guys updated,
of course, once we have more information
out of Singapore. Plenty more ahead.
This is the China Show.
[Music]
Welcome back car makers on your screens.
Um 2% is not bad given how we open the
day at three more than 3% drop
specifically on BYD here. Uh well, sales
barely grew uh last month, raising some
doubts, at least some challenges about
whether or not the Chinese EV maker will
actually meet its annual target. For
more context, here is Danny Lee, our
transport reporter, to put these numbers
into context for us.
>> Yeah, BYD uh sales year on year barely
grew, less than 1%, but from the
previous month, down 10%. And that just
raises questions. It has a big amount to
climb if it is to reach its 5.5 million
annual sales target for for this year.
So, it now has a run rate. It needs to
sell 600,000 units for the rest of year
in each month. And that's a really tough
figure for them because they've only
sold a record of 515,000 previously as a
pre prior high. So, this is a tough kind
of mountain for them to climb. And you
can see the share reaction open a little
over 4% lower at the time. Pulled back a
bit. But when you then see the rest of
the market, um, BYD has underperformed
the rest of the marketplace basically.
>> So is the rest of the market doing
better then like in terms of that one
data point and how does it set those
competitors up for the rest of this
year? Yeah, I mean we are seeing a
higher level of competition and we
shouldn't be too surprised that the the
the sales numbers in the summer period
particularly July should be a little bit
more muted. But when you look at the
likes of Stellantis partner the motor uh
you also see um Xiaoong and Xiaomi
they're all still rising. They're
hitting record monthly sales even though
they're on a smaller base but they're
still doing better and effective
competing more effectively. We are
seeing a few others like Lee Auto uh
falling 40% uh in terms of sales
numbers. Then we also see the likes of
um you know you know you see a few
others like NEO also struggling. So you
know there's a bit of a mixed bag but
you can still see who are the winners
and very much losers.
>> Yeah. And I think to your point in BYD's
case the bar has been raised so high
that they need to almost strike a world
PR almost on every month. Yeah. To be
able to meet the target. Okay. wondering
how the company then manages guidance if
that is a future topic of conversation
there. Danny, thank you so much. Danny
Lee, a transport reporter. Plenty more
ahead here. Actually, not plenty more
ahead. We're almost done with the show,
but there's plenty more ahead here on
Blueberg television. This is the China
show.
[Music]
Welcome back. Before we go, just a look
at some of the big movers out there.
2.4% 4% as you can see on shares of
PopMart. Morgan Stanley is out with a
note suggesting buy on recent weakness.
There we go. One of the out performers
today. Although certainly the bullish
call around PopMart is not something
new. It's that's about as fresh as
previously frozen uh grocery sushi as
they say. New Oriental is one stock
we're tracking on your screen. That's
also an analyst call. ABC International
reducing that one uh cutting that to
hold uh 35.82 right now in shares of new
oriental. Uh big earnings week coming
through. So CL is today uh in the rest
of the week will hold a lot of the swag
group is reporting. So you have keep an
eye on that. I think MGM China the
casino player of course is coming out
with some earnings. SMIC Huahong Semi
are also coming out in terms of if
you're not able to make out the logos
quite obviously on the screens Kathy
Pacific there we go spelled out and
Swire Pacific are set to report results
this week. Speaking of airlines for the
first time in 5 years stay tuned of
course when Thai markets open up in the
next hour and we have Thai Airways set
to resume trading after that
restructuring.
Well, details on your screens on that
and we'll see how the markets absorbs
the trading here of Thai Airways. That
comes, of course, in a couple of minutes
going into the rest of the session.
That's it from us here on the China
show. We will see you all tomorrow. It's
a big week ahead. The night is young.
We're going into the last 30 minutes of
trade in mainland China. We're off a
little bit, a tenth of 1%.
This is Blumbberg.
[Music]